I met Mort Sahl in the early 1960s he
was one of America's great satirist s--
political commentators comedians and
social observers
although the landscape of the genre was
dominated by Lenny Bruce and Mort
he was far more cerebral less caustic
and made a point of never using a
four-letter word on stage or for that
matter having a drink or smoking a joint
ever he recorded the first comedy album
he was the first comedian on the cover
of Time magazine
he sold at nightclubs all over the
country
he wrote jokes for President Kennedy he
has appeared as an actor in a number of
films hosted a television show wrote
screenplays and autobiography and became
my first political and social mentor
there came a time in Mort Saul's career
where he developed an unquenchable
curiosity about the assassination of
President Kennedy and would venture to
New Orleans where he volunteered his
time to Jim Garrison the district
attorney who was portrayed in the Oliver
Stone film JFK garrison prosecuted a man
who he charged with being involved in a
conspiracy to murder the president for
the record that man was acquitted and
Mort Sahl
returned to Hollywood where he was
criticized castigated and deemed an
unwelcome guest
he lives in Northern California now
and we still remain friends over 40
years he has never forgotten to call and
wish me a happy birthday I still
consider him to be one of the most
astute observers of the American
political experience KPFK
listener-supported Pacifica Radio Los
Angeles my name is Eliot mins this is
looking out more it is just la I can't
tell you what a gasp it is to have you
here tonight well we moved heaven and
earth Elliott as you know and listeners
don't know the there's an abundance of
riches in addition to first I was doing
nothing I don't know how many of the
listeners know that in addition to doing
the show after you and I got together we
decided to do this and then of course
they called from New York and said they
had a Johnny Carson show for me in that
way that they have of calling it always
sounds like you know operation Head
Start they helped me urban renewal the
fact is they have a lot of letters and
they can't hold the audience on a chain
that much longer they want to know if
I'm dead or not so they're going to
important me for the show and they want
to do it Monday and that would mean of
course flying in Sunday because you have
to report at noon in order to brief the
producer so there's no way to do it they
won't let you fly in that day because
they're afraid of weather delays then
they wouldn't let me I said well I have
a show to doing Los Angeles on Sunday
and they said cancel it and I said I
can't do that and then they said I said
I'll have to cancel isset well you had
been canceling a lot of shows you know
that won't look too good and then of
course the singular morality then I said
what about Tuesday there's a you
couldn't be on because Bob Hope is on
Tuesday and he has a different position
than you on Vietnam they told me that so
I couldn't be on with him and then I
finally put it off until Thursday I'll
be on the Carson show Thursday night
that for those of you who have a duality
of purpose and listener KPFK
watch NBC but
they're covering the full spectrum I
think Jim Garrison once described NBC as
the network who believes in the right of
the people to know right he's not afraid
of him which is enough in itself and I
I spoke with with Mark Lane this week
who's in New Orleans and I'll be down
there later this week after the New York
trip and as you know he has a bribery
public bribery indictment against them a
Walter Sheridan MN BC and Walter
Sheridan has a strange history for a
broadcaster as a matter of fact bill
stout of CBS once put it this way to me
he said when it came to the garrison
case NBC didn't use a reporter they
hired a house detective they hired one
of Robert Kennedy's lawyers on the Hoffa
case to operate there yes that's who
Walter Sheridan isn't and he did the
Frank McGee show which was called the
case against Jim Garrison and he went
down there and garrison has an
indictment against him on the basis of
publicly brought trying to bribe a Perry
Russo to defect to the to California
where he would not be extradited and to
discredit garrison publicly and the
garrison also charges in that indictment
that Russo used I mean that not Russo
Sheridan use the phrase I will destroy
garrison I'm here to destroy garrison is
that many times around New Orleans now
NBC turned that show over to Sheridan
not to any of its other reporters he
felt as he said in playboy garrison that
NBC had gone even they felt they've gone
shirt had gone too far because they gave
him equal time very quickly they kind of
backtracked on the other hand we find
with Newsweek in news weeks continual
blasts at garrison and I want to tell
all the good liberals out there that
that's your Journal Phil Gramm the
Washington Post good social democrats
not Time magazine not a fascistic
magazine but a good liberal magazine
Newsweek hired hugh Ainsworth to cover
garrison they said he's an outstanding
scholar having worked for the Dallas
Times Herald an outstanding scholar for
instance in his last exchange with Mark
Lane in
LSE told Mark Lane something to the
effect that Warren was not objective
about the Oswald because both of them
are left-wingers extreme left wingers so
that's the guy that the Newsweek feels
as an authority on the case I want to
begin at the beginning all right and
follow this thing very very closely so
we can really understand not only what's
surrounding the suppression of what Jim
Garrison is doing in New Orleans but
also what has been done against you
personally
now when did it there was a time that
you were appearing in nightclubs and
making billions and billions of dollars
in selling record albums and you were a
comedian
and the rest of it and you didn't talk
about the assassination something then
happened that obviously was to lead to
the change of your entire life when did
it begin for you more when did you begin
to I began to ask questions about this
case he's to ask them socially and I
couldn't find anybody to answer me but
then I only mix with liberals you know
so I that's like looking for an honest
man and not having a lamp and then of
course I ran into when I had the
television show over at the channel 11
we had the mark lane was coming into
town he was originally scheduled on a
pine show and some benefactors steered
him toward my program instead and he did
cancel a fine show they were furious and
as well they might be I suppose about a
commitment and Mark Lane came on in
October of 1966 six right he came on
with me and made five appearances
Publishers Weekly and the New York Times
agree that rush to judgment is a
national bestseller because of
California and because of Southern
California and more specifically because
of that program and yeah we sold a lot
of books I told people it was the most
important book in their lifetime I told
lane when I met him that I thought he
was the most important man in the
country rush to judgment absolutely and
I think garrison is now a Reaper has not
replaced him as the most important man
in the country when we market I got
along very well and
the shows were good we found we didn't
need you know actors are fun and games
or anything we just had to talk and the
people cared about it and we really got
a storm going and because the people
responded I kept going with it then of
course the KLA see show was in the works
and I kept going with that when the KL
AC show
began to roll of course I got the first
national interview with garrison I got
90 minutes on tape with garrison and
lane which I I paid for my own trip to
New Orleans because the station didn't
think it was worth it
straws only a man investigating the
murder of the president this is radio
station ka lacy you know went down and I
came back and I played that and of
course there was there was great
suppression KTTV
the program director Jim gates kept
saying to me well d at wrigley he said
he just said he wasn't suppressing me it
wasn't a matter of censorship it was a
matter of showmanship and he said
theatrically it's boring and just
hearing you talk about Kennedy and even
when I was finally fired at KTTV the
first time which was a a year ago
December he came to my house and gave
him I noticed us that your ratings are
very bad and you're going off and
instead of leaving well enough alone
he then got nervous and said I think
it's because you just talked about the
same thing all the time
Kennedy Kennedy Kennedy were sick
hearing about Kennedy and I'm exercising
the profanity so you know as we also all
will say speak for yourself general
Alden I haven't found too many people in
the American electorate who are really
sick of talking about Kennedy I find
people who work out and who are fearful
but I don't care what happens to them
for talking about Kennedy anything that
happens other than having your head
blown off in Dealey Plaza is somewhat
anticlimactic sane men have grown insane
on this subject for Robert Vaughn to be
quizzed by Senator Robert Kennedy to be
pursued around senator Kennedy's mansion
why was Mort Sahl fired why does he
claim he was fired and for Robert Vaughn
to say I was fearful of the
interrogation so I said I didn't know
and if a Robert want publicly to declaim
well as a matter of fact senator Kennedy
is a very busy man he has the world on
his shoulders and he doesn't have time
to even know who Mort Sahl is I know
what makes people move this way but only
in this case I have found some
continuity of integrity on the part of
people in any issue but this issue now
I'm skipping here chronologically which
I don't mean to do on you but let me
raise a question yes at its peak
your KL AC telephone talk show and the
KETV television show what were the
ratings like what was the audience
response the ratings on the television
show we're good and healthy and I think
that it's important for the audience to
know that we presented 30 to 40 minutes
of sketches every week and I wrote them
and I produced the program myself and
was in the office seven days a week and
I did all the monologues in between and
I booked the guests I was on there for
two hours I spent seven days in that
office and I made $600 a week
gross now that's a pretty cheap way to
bring in a show which is sold out on
sponsorship no sponsors complained and
you must be very guarded about that when
you hear remarks such as KL AC made of a
RBS tamargo said no sponsors it has
become a device in our society because
there is a an integumentary at very
seldom is the sponsors how were your
sponsors on the program I never had any
trouble in television were sold out and
they never complained we even kidded
them especially the used-car people we
were sold out gates himself said at the
end of the show that when he finally
discharged me for something he called
insubordination he said you are which
we'll get to in a second he said the
ratings were healthy and the show was a
good entertaining show but this guy
can't follow direction that said many
times and of course that may be said
with gleam toward heading you off the
path
no one else will hire you either because
it is a limited industry to begin with
limited encouraged limited in
perspective limited in goals when the
radio program was on at the same time of
course I had Harold Weisberg on I had
lain on and we rang up tremendous
ratings Jack Thayer who was the
potentate at KAC brought the ratings by
and the evening shift at KL AC had a
17-7 the last time you brought them by
which men had passed khj people were
really listening why were they listening
because I was talking about their
president whom they loved I was talking
about the draft which is every young
man's stake and I was talking about
where I thought it was at because I was
taking their pulse now because so they
of course in the super state to
paraphrase garrison they must drop you
for not communicating the fact is they
drop you because you do communicate
that's the real crime to reach other
people
I was never such an extraordinary man
until it became an ordinary man and
joined the people of course when I began
to express really what was on their
minds but I took a different course of
action I took a course of action which
satisfied me now when they dropped the
radio program they gave me no notice the
night they chose I said to the audience
should I disappear it is not voluntary
I'll stay here as long as you need me
you want to talk to me and if I
disappear you must rise as an army
doesn't unvoluntary I played Kennedy's
inauguration Roosevelt's inauguration
and a garrison speech for 20 minutes and
the next day I was told not to report
the agency that represented me at that
time did not contest this they're not
interested in money and a capitalistic
society worth the gather which agencies
and a creative Management Associates and
they did not rise as an army they in
fact one of the executives up there
quoted me a story by Jill sharing in the
Free Press it's good to know they read
the Free Press isn't it it's amazing huh
they don't quote it when it's not
convenient though it's got to be the
Free Press on their terms they've got to
figure out some way you know bringing it
back home for it you know that's right
document to bring it back home very well
put
so the they drop the show
and somebody oh I guess I shouldn't I
shouldn't betray the confidence somebody
who was influential here in town said to
me you're gonna be dropped on television
now the only difference is the first
time you were fired and a lot of you
remember this
Ramos fired on television I talked about
out of the radio mm-hm the station got
31,000 letters and reinstated me this
time 1030 1000 in three days at one
source Jim Gates I got a couple of
thousand myself up in Las Vegas at
Caesar's Palace and other people at the
station got letters that was the
Coralville in three days this time they
cut the live show the radio show and
then the television show was controlled
by tape so I immediately received a
letter saying you've been fired on radio
that is regrettable do not discuss it on
television if you do this will be
insubordination and then I got a series
of letters for record they would come
every day special delivery from Jim
gates at KTTV
and they would say do not discuss this
KLA see maintained that Mort is gone but
anybody's free that he has his platform
at KTTV so mark Lane then directed one
of the young men on the Citizens
Committee of Inquiry
which I want to talk about later to call
the station and say that it is obvious I
am the only public platform for the
district attorney in New Orleans and
therefore it is his opinion but that
contributed to my being fired they
wouldn't let the young man on the air so
since they had said I had my own
platform and television I put him on
television so they erased him from the
television tape it sent me another
letter and said you cannot bring this up
you're not to discuss the radio station
so I checked with an attorney and the
attorney said that means that in their
interpretation for them to beat you with
chains and for you to go on the air and
if I someone in the audience says what
is that scar you say they hit me with a
chain that's term disparaging by them
you have a right to express yourself
under an FCC license granted that
channel 11 as long as you don't
disparage them so went on the next week
and I said that tape was erased the
young man was on it so they erased that
tape and they sent me another letter and
I said if you mention anyone at this
station by name or by title or refer to
the fact that you have a radio program
you will be fired
that day I was in the office in garrison
called me from New Orleans and he said I
have an exclusive for you to break on
the air
I have eyewitnesses placing Ruby Oswald
and Shaw together in Baton Rouge eyeball
witnesses so I went on the air and they
told out on the air and I mentioned
about three minutes about the radio
program which i isolated so that if it
was cut out they could see the rest of
the show which was funny was it good
show Biff Rose was on Phil Ochs was on a
Hamilton camp Joyce Jamison they erase
the entire tape and sent me a letter the
next morning firing me for
insubordination in mid contract at a
time when they owed me eighty three
thousand dollars so that's a capricious
form of behavior you might think for a
large organization but they saw fit to
do that
over this issue they saw fit not even to
call me and I want to make a point here
that this is not capitalism is you know
shape up or ship out this is the way we
do things this is a different form no
one came to me and said shape up that it
was just over no one spoke to me nobody
just the vast silence my guest is Mort
Sahl and we'll continue with much more
all right so here you are at KTTV
and klas a with incredibly high ratings
31,000 letters received in a period of
three days and having turned Los Angeles
on to obviously the most important issue
of the day and you are fired
you are through what was it like after
that Morty well I'll dart to go around
and look for other jobs right it was
seat KTTV this pending legal action I'm
going to the Union for arbitration
through AFTRA which I'm a member and
have been for 15 years to settle this so
I'm not saying there's a correlation
between what I said about the
assassination and what happened there
but the assassination is not my first
experience at twisting the arm of the
establishment is not my first experience
at being threatened or paying for it I'm
the same guy who was on the cover of
Time magazine August 8 1960
the same guy who MC the Academy Awards
with Laurence Olivier Bob Hope Jerry
Lewis and Tony Randall in 1960 mm-hmm
I'm the same guy that had my own show on
NBC a few years ago I'm the same guy
that's been under contract to all three
networks now what was the attitude you
know we have to use a very broad canvas
if not a broad brush here to see what
the attitude is here I am submitted to
Network shows at the same time because I
have a national reputation when I was
submitted to the Dean Martin show the
agent was said oh no not that guy
never because he's making speeches and
he's gone crazy on that subject I've
gone crazy it's only a couple of years
that they were selling Kennedy to me
they thought I was for Stevenson that's
because I like to know who I'm voting
for and I confess when I meet a stranger
I don't condemn them but I ask who he is
before I vote for him they that happened
to me repeatedly and of course you know
I saw the whole liberal syndrome I tried
to call it the way I saw it in Los
Angeles
there were many subjects on that program
and while I want to stay with the
assassination tonight I just briefly
want to point out that everybody knows
who they are and that since God put me
into the role of holding the mirror up
to Dracula who knows very well what he
looks like anyway they didn't stand up
to be counted when they were needed
I made the appeal I stood up there and I
said you know who you are and you know
the fight I'm in what's at stake is
America in essence that's the reason
that when Budd Schulberg went to watts
and sold a television show offered or
two and the articles to Playboy I
pointed out that but Schill Berg knows
better before even the history of the
Negro people he knew the history of the
Jewish people and he knew the history of
the autumn erican Activities Committee
and that we must all face ourselves now
that wasn't pleasant for everybody but
we had to say it on the air I talked
about all the X left in Hollywood and
what they had become since they joined
the establishment thatin become right
doesn't become anything they had become
eunuchs and I
to remind them and ask them if it was
worth the price because garrison says in
the Faust legend the price is you I
pointed that out I pointed out that the
country is going down the tube because
we're not we have no hope we have no
optimism as we had under Kennedy and
we're trying to rationalize a war I
pointed out as unpopular as it may sound
but there's a vast store of Jewish
people in this city who have turned
their back on their commitment which is
survival you know who have gone who have
gone the other way and who will give
Ronald Reagan a standing reception a
standing ovation that is in Hollywood
Bowl because he says the right things
about Israel you know I know well I
suppose everybody will including you
Omar Sharif and Danny Thomas the only
two Arabs in the show business community
but as hard as as it is going down again
we have to point out that the Jewish
people and I know some here who even
fled from Hitler come full circle now
and not only rationalize the war in
Vietnam but make the same error they
made in Germany that if they have enough
money they will buy out garrison is
painting a picture of a neo-nazi group
and as Jack ruby red gone toward the end
in the jail I helped them because it was
a money deal but I see I'm helping
people who will burn my people there are
Jewish elements Jewish liberal elements
that turned their back on the present
and they know better and I know some
people out here and there in this
industry and have got for their answer
to me is a large blue pencil drawn
through my name in case I can get a job
and imagine that all they think they can
do a man in America is take away his
right to make a living in between of
course you've got all the Liberals with
their knees knocking looking the other
way I'd say something about the issue if
I knew anything about it but I don't
know well I'm sure that they do in fact
those who are most fearful are those who
come up with the worst conjecture yes I
found myself unemployable completely
completely you couldn't get a job
anywhere yeah they know where you know
what would happen when your agents would
call the nightclubs TV stations all what
would happen is America's not Germany
and it's not
well well enough organised so sometimes
guys fall in the trap and a guy would
call you they'd offer you a job on
Friday and by the time I get back to him
Tuesday he would have changed his mind
what happened in the interim ward who
would make the telephone calls to the
booking agents well I did and then after
a while I didn't know I mean who you
spoke with the booking agents and the
people who could give you employment and
say don't touch saw oh oh you mean from
the other end yeah well several people
vice-president of a network here in this
city and there are only three said to my
agent if I try to use Mort he said Who
am I respect I'll lose my job that's a
man with seniority on my dad at the
network vice-president of leading motion
picture tell and television studio he
said don't ever mention his name in this
office that offended there that offended
by it who now were they functioning
independently more because of their own
hang-up so with somebody actually like
who threatened this the the the vice
president of the network what you don't
know because you know you don't know
it's hard to be both as I told you the
other night a corpse and a detective to
15 percent of this puzzle is missing
because people won't come out of the
bush isn't say they won't come out of
the shadows and say we are conspirators
I don't believe that the government
calls everybody I think that people are
sufficiently corrupt and enjoy a
mutuality of interest that that they
will behave as they do one of the
leading television commentators said to
me when I said what are you gonna do
about the garrison case he said well I'm
gonna stay away from him he told me that
openly but that would be his course that
would be his fearless course and
informing the American people who killed
their president I the best way of course
was for everybody to call me paranoiac
and to look the other way and I've had
some pretty important people tell me
that because what can they do
can they admit that again that this is
not the best of all possible worlds
because then they might have to do a
patch they might have to do a repair job
and they're not that they're not
prepared sufficiently to even sweep the
room and
care of it because though Tian's of the
room hygienic lee let alone to repaper
there the walls and make some
improvements on the property they are a
by and large a gutless breed there are
several levels here in Hollywood there's
the level of I'm not talented he's
having bad luck it might rub off on me
and I'll really be in trouble I better
keep away the straight opportunism but
there's some remarks that are hard to
answer
there's Bill Cosby who said I have a
wife and kids I can't be seen with him
how's that how's that caught a wife and
kids and I addressed my remarks to him
one week I'd like I said I'd like to
know what you're gonna leave your wife
and kids what are you leave your kids in
America we have America that's all we
have
that's all we have and the signs are
that we are losing her Martin Lee about
your friends what happened with them
your close friends people they vanished
I know they're around because I go see
them in pictures all the time but I'm
glad they're still available to me on
film because my memories are treasured
really it was it really like that I mean
yes the social ostracism what care what
friends do I have now yeah how many
people could you call now and say hey
man I'd like to get together with you
and rap you know
well you're the newest I would say mark
lane Jim Garrison Maggie field and
Enrico Banducci Daria I'm in pretty good
company and man that's I wouldn't go
back for anything last week I was here
negotiating for something and I I had to
go out to dinner had to do the thing at
the get back you know and I went out
well not for dinner it was very
interesting I walked into a restaurant
in Beverly Hills and you all have to you
know take a flight of fancy with me now
you got to remember the breed which I
was I came down the pike and I was a
great threat 1956-57 and they denied me
and then then of course I I made it
stick with the people so then they try
to absorb you and I was everywhere you
know when Paul Newman put his footprints
in cement at Grauman's Chinese I am
seated for television
asked me to I'm that guy I'm the guy I
made pictures and I did television shows
and I address people with campuses okay
I saw what to dinner and I walked into a
Beverly Hills restaurant and my former
manager was there who still handles the
affairs of Peter Lawford he's a guy who
once threatened me was never working
again in America Peter look if I did
both of them if I didn't stop the
kidding President Kennedy they loved
them you see they also these same people
then change gloves on the left hand to
the right hand and see that you continue
not to work for asking who killed him
President Kennedy you know is very lucky
that I can be objective as his memory is
that I can be objective about it I
didn't love him so I can give full time
to finding out who did him in fantastic
you knew him didn't I yes it did
and I wrote for him for 19 months and I
said that on KLA see senator Kennedy as
I understand it asked mr. Vaughn if I
ever claimed that and mr. Vaughn said
liddy it with the customary courage I
don't know what he said
well I said it in fact senator Kennedy
said the opportunity to ask me and for
those of you who can't get a framework
on this you must remember that I go into
the White House at will I repeat to you
at will I ate with Senator Kennedy last
May and I ate with Lyndon Johnson the
May before that and one was in
Washington for five days in July I went
to the White House three of them I
walked through the gate they know me
they know me and I refuse to go away am
i a very persistent epidemic now back to
the point so I walked into
well it's interesting in light of in
light of having that access and then
doing a local television show and having
people running for Congress
using me me in the most opportunistic
vein if nothing else they should not
think that I'm a fool and they should
not think I'm ambitious on the level of
a House of Representatives I've rejected
the best you know so if I'm neurotic I'm
neurotic you know a one you know zero
cool but anyway back to back to the yeah
I forgot that dementia is the cinema
senator
right in the afternoon at will Who am I
really dick although I'm sure that lot
of liberals out there think he's a
racist that's their way at any rate so I
walked into Stephanie nose and I walked
in with a good guy
to talk some business and there sits mr.
Evans who doesn't say anything to me
I've openly accused him on the air who
is mr. mr. Evans mr. Lawford's manager
used to be my manager
I see confident of the president at a
certain recreational level and who now
thinks you know that guy's killing
himself by discussing that subject the
assassination he's doing himself in he's
self-destructive it's a terrible thing
to watch but they watch that every
Friday night as long as it was on he's
sitting in that restaurant and people
came through the door actors who know me
and know him and they refused to speak
to me during the evening they averted
their heads there's that much terror and
then a manager came over to me who used
to handle George Maharis and she said to
me hey listen I'm not with the hate
group and I said the hate group she said
I don't care what anybody says I'll use
you I'm gonna do a picture there might
be a part for you I don't care what
anybody says that's in reference to
paranoia the next night I was in a
restaurant called Dominic's to confer
their conduct business which has been
great in restaurants and Jim Arness came
in very jovial good guy but then he's a
conservative you know you have nothing
to fear he couldn't get near you because
he couldn't find your body beneath the
Liberals pounding it and there was
George Axelrod who used to be my friend
who two years ago asked me to direct a
film for him he now says you used to be
America's conscience and now you're
America's insanity that's his reply to
my plea to clean up the Kennedy case
because it started as a toothache it is
now an abscess and eventually the
patient is going to die you have no way
to get away from Jack Kennedy you chose
him and you go you rise with him as the
Phoenix or you go down and flame with
him sorry folks but that's the deal now
I watched all night last week those are
all those small examples but they're the
microcosm of the whole thing the people
who are fearful
to talk to you who asked you questions
and who run away from you that it goes
all the way down to the actors it would
run into me in Carl's market or the
Mayfair on Santa Monica at 2:00 in the
morning and it was open that late night
sit at me hey what's with your friend
garrison he better get his head examined
they'd see him and I'd say in essence
this is what's with my friend garrison
because the Playboy thing was in work
the intern was coming I'd say the
president reached they you know reached
an agreement with the Soviet Union about
Cuba among other things and he sent the
FBI in to bust the anti-castro Cuban
exile groups training in the next day
the CIA gave a blank check to go ahead
and counter man in his order and that
conflict is what brought the government
down people say you played the ER you're
preaching rebellion I said we had
rebellion the government was overthrown
in Dallas for all we know and then they
run off into the woods and I've got them
coming and going man I got him boxed in
both ways if they accuse Johnson which a
lot of them want to do because they want
to help Roberto into the chair then I
say there's no evidence connecting
Johnson to the case and if there is why
are you nominating him and rationalizing
the war in Vietnam or then they come up
to me they say well if all of this is
true aren't you afraid and then I say no
because a lone gunman did it in Dallas
and he's long gone I've got them coming
and going because they have no position
but I tell you that I knew everybody
understand or no just that I don't see
them and there is no studio open there
is no television there's just a vast
uneasiness because they have to meet you
they have to meet you because the plan
isn't complete eventually you're gonna
get an invitation to a screening or a
premiere and you've got to meet them in
the lobby and that's what I got when
they got to begin tugging of their
collars when garrison came out here the
last time to set up this thing on Eugene
Bradley when everybody thought all he
was doing was sitting in a daisy
Lester's doing it I took him in the
Daisy and we sat in there and all the
actors who said I was crazy and all the
comedian's three or four of whom in
rebellion could have turned the tide ran
up to me and asked to meet him there all
on his side because he's here can you
imagine what's gonna happen if he wins
I'll tell you all out there and you all
know who you are what's gonna happen
he wins first of all we're gonna get the
country back I like that part yeah but
there's gonna be a terrible retribution
for those of you who'd denied him and
think that you're liberal credentials
will let you change ATS you know General
Smedley Butler the Marine Corps talked
about the revolution in Nicaragua the
vast majority of peasants had no
political belief and the Easter where
the the the rebels had a red hat band
and the fascists had a blue hat band and
most people who were smart had a hat man
that was reversible garrison is charged
that all the attorneys defending all the
people in this case are retained by the
CIA and he stands flatly on on that
charge now the cat defending it at your
Eugene Bradley was a former FBI man
wasn't he I noticed that yeah as a
matter of fact I noticed that too
I also the New Orleans state's item
pointed out this week in which our
papers missed here that dr. McIntyre
Bradley's associate there has been
active in a draft J Edgar Hoover for the
presidency movement I haven't heard
anybody bring that up but you know since
Walter Winchell I'd hate to see Hoover
stepped down for the presidency but you
know if that's if that's the will of the
people let it be her anyway
as garrison always says whenever we sent
the co sis to mark Leno means is it your
sarcastic remarks about the director
have made my job insufferably difficult
but at any rate tell it let me interrupt
yeah tell us about Jade GU Hoover well
Hoover is now 73 the mandatories federal
aid retirement retirement age I should
say is a 70 Johnson waived it for him
well of course everybody says I mean a
folklore is that he has so much on
everybody that nobody can throw him out
he's been in office 44 years 44 year 44
years which means that he looks upon the
President as attraction for one thing
and as Garrison has said he's a finest
director the Bureau has ever had and
also the only director the pier has ever
had so that's fantastic
of course the the Bureau immoral
says his run and most people agree I say
gestapo-like organization because it
reflects the views of that one man who
runs it and nobody messes with him no
one ever has all the attorneys general
walked down the hall to his office he
doesn't report to them the only one who
tangled with him was Bob Kennedy what
about the only one what is the
relationship like between Bobby Kennedy
and J Google it isn't very good as a
report in Look magazine when the
president was killed Hoover informed
Bobby Kennedy called the man Hickory
Hill and he said your brother's dead and
he hung up Bobby Kennedy wanted to make
certain that he realized that he was the
boss as I understand it which is
certainly right along with being
Attorney General by the way as garrison
has pointed out Robert Kennedy had the
right to arrest the members of the
Warren Commission as accessories after
the fact and asked that they be hanged
which I do not believe he did although I
haven't gone into their record why why
is Bobby Kennedy walking around with his
mouth shut I don't know there are
several answers one is that of course
the best source would be him we would
have to ask him the second is that the
elements are so terror ridden that they
would kill him if he said anything the
third is that it was a fait accompli and
all the people in the government went in
told it'll be anarchy you must go along
for the good of your country there are
in other words it'll bring the country
down if if they know what happened
although ironically enough the way they
brought the country up they brought the
country down
we now not only doubt the CIA we doubt
everybody there are people who say he
has a deal with the President to carry
on in 1972 but I will say that he is
amazingly he's an amazing lack of
inquiry about this case when I was
interviewed in Washington by Jeremy
Campbell for the London observer it's
funny how your heard in America I was
interviewed in Washington by the London
observer then the San Francisco
Chronicle picked up the story and ran it
on the front page and Sunday the front
page it says I know who killed Kennedy
says Saul front page three columns with
a photo headline I never heard from
Robert Kennedy about that even to
admonish me for being irresponsible mark
Lane is never
from and certainly garrison has never
heard from in fact there's evidence that
he's tried to bulldoze the garrison
investigation
Walter Sheridan is his man as was
reported to me last May when Robert
Kennedy was out here was a dinner and we
had which was present Pierre Salinger
Andy Williams Milton Berle Robert Vaughn
and Edie Guffman who used to be
administrative assistant to Robert
Kennedy is now the national editor the
LA Times and you know their view on
garrison the only time they give up that
cartoon section the let Johnson offer a
day is to go after garrison Guttman got
up and said gee mort's throw in the
business and it's a shame he committed
suicide by hanging out with garrison and
Lane first of all I appreciate their
concern for the post-mortem about me and
I appreciate the judgment that I'm
through and I wonder what would make
them say that I wonder why garrison
Elaine would be the enemy they're only
acting as Patriots they're proving that
they love their president they know they
not that because he's a dead president
he's not the remembered president or
spirit in this country Mort do you
believe Bobby Kennedy right now has a
pretty good idea who killed his brother
I don't know I don't have any idea
garrison has said that there is no way
that the president would not know what's
going on here which is not to say he's a
conspirator no way but I don't know I
don't know how Robert Kennedy I don't
know what he knows have no idea is quite
an America bout it all you believe right
know that President Johnson has a pretty
good idea who killed Kennedy President
Johnson of course must he must know just
from an overlap of information he must
have some information he must know that
Lee Oswald did not do it he has to know
that in order for this immense cover-up
to go on so does the vice president
you're listening to KPFK
listener-supported Pacifica Radio Los
Angeles so we walk up to the house
there's a tricycle in the driveway and
we're not gonna door in garrison comes
the door in his bathrobe because he had
the flu and I put my hand I said I just
came down to shake your hand and he said
I hope you're gonna do more than that I
mean it was the beginning and we sat
down and we talked to him until about 4
o'clock in the morning and we talked to
him about everything it is at a great
oratorical style you know and he's a
true believer he isn't in the liberal
tradition of this country which some
people would call a liberal -
conservative tradition but prizing the
individual against federalism and we
went there on successive nights and he
brought the detectives over to meet us
the guys working among whom was Bill
Gurwitch who later defected you recall
he made a statement for the press
defecting after he left Robert Kennedy's
office bill garbage who said clay Shahs
being railroaded and Garrison has no
case was in the office and he told me
was great relish how they got Clay Shaw
how Clay Shaw had come in they asked him
to come in and Garrison said I'm
charging you with conspiracy to murder
John F Kennedy and Shaw said nothing the
perspiration broke out in his upper lip
and he said I'd like to go home and
consider this and Garrison said I don't
think so after looking at Andy chambray
his assistant because he knew that the
guy wanted to clean out his apartment
they always know that so they went to
the apartment of course they got the
whips and that changed the executioner's
gown and the shoes in the shape of
coffins which he said was a Mardi Gras
costume but of course the shoes had
never touched the sidewalk nothing but a
carpeted floor the shoes in the shape of
a coffins so they then had the gergich
told me that he was going to get Sergio
are conscious Smith another one of the
Cubans it was in Dallas and Governor
Connally had not extradite it was gonna
go down there he said if we get the
extradition I want to go get him he said
with great relish and I said how much is
involved in going into Dallas to bring a
guy back and he said there's nothing
involved he said I go down there and
knock on the door and he comes to the
door and I say I
gotcha gotcha and they said then we come
back and I said what if he resists he
said I hope so
and we all laughed a lot so and the
detectives would come in Garrison's den
which is a bust of Bertrand Russell up
there and which the press doesn't tell
you the press says to you garrison has a
picture of Napoleon yes he does but he
also has a bust of Bertrand Russell and
he quotes some Hamlin a lot we found out
a lot of things about him we found out
that when when the the Doubleday stores
in New Orleans had James Baldwin's book
another country and they seized it on
the basis of pornography we're gonna
close the source and they asked the
district attorney to prosecute the case
garrison called the guys that had the
story he said what are you gonna do you
gonna fight this they said no we'll just
pay the fine and reopen he said you
can't do that and they said why and he
said because next time they'll burn your
books and he helped them win even though
he's the prosecuting attorney so we
found out a good deal about him and his
character and he and the guys were
walking in and out a lot of the guys
were voluntary because he only has a
staff really a four and four people yeah
in the office he's got he's got the the
greatest DA's office in the country
before this case I mean he says he has
no grey mice they're all lawyers of
fight who are very hard to come by
because if I wanted to say a name a
profession that's the lowest I would
have to say the legal profession what is
it or they well they really are the
prostitutes of our time because their
passion can be purchased and because the
ones I've met are all starstruck because
they talk about the scales of justice
but boy it's no accident that she's
blindfolded and that her dress is
tattered they're unbelievable they are
unbelievable
anything goes I had a lawyer out here
for 10 years when the president was
killed
he's to give presents to his clients at
the end of the year I mean he'd send you
a picture plastic glasses well the
president was killed he sent a card out
is it because of our great loss this
year we're gonna send the money to a
donation
in some of the gift to a clinic for
mental health because it was a deranged
person that took the life of our
president perfect liberalism all looking
the other way there wasn't one member of
the American Bar Association who said
anything about defending Lee Harvey
Oswald there wasn't one member of the
American Civil Liberties Union that went
into the defend Lee Harvey Oswald and
because as Garrison said to me in the
den that night because we lost an
adversary proceeding because the law
wasn't protected by lawmen then we not
only lost our president we lost our
justice to Martin Lee we come to that
point I guess in any discussion about
this particular subject you know the
inevitable reality that we must confront
ourselves with however difficult that
might be who killed John F Kennedy well
as far as we can tell I must tell you
that garrison has every confidence is
going into court February 14th which is
a month away I expect he will but the
scenario points toward a coalition of
anti-castro Cuban exiles oil-rich
psychotics I'm quoting a district
attorney in Texas retired military
various voices of the right that is at
an operational level of the conspiracy
and at a planning level the Cubans were
a good set up because they were
disenchanted with the Kennedy
administration and also they were
lawless you've got to remember these
informants who work for the CIA along
the way if you have government by
hoodlums
what are you supporting every cop we
know in LA has his contacts on Main
Street or East Fifth Street
he's got junkies and pimps and peddlers
etc but he knows what they are and he
keeps them within perspective to work
for the greater good as they say
the CIA keeps them on staff for 20 years
invisible
watch at the end of this service and
that's the difference this undercover
thing of doing what you want to
encounter manning orders of the
president and writing blank checks and
not being checked by the congress spawns
a government by hoodlums that is not to
say that the government subsidized the
assassination we don't know that and
garrison denies it i said why do you say
ex-cia men he says because i can't
conceive of anybody in my government
wanting behind the president but the
point is somewhere along the line we
gave up we we gave in when the
government said we know better what's
good for you than you know for yourself
that's why you know the liberalism of
today you know whether it's Lawrence
Sherman in a 28th district saying I'm
going into the convention with a beast
slate or Robert Vaughn's saying the wars
the aberration of of the Lyndon Johnson
and not Robert Kennedy his puny or carl
reiner saying dick van dyke and i are
gonna host a black-tie party at the
daisy for eugene mccarthy or dissenting
democrats this is twenty years too late
man they've been drafting people like
you for twenty years so that eventually
435 honorable men in the congress don't
ii don't even object and nobody votes
against the unamerican Activities
Committee and nobody says anything about
the war and nobody says anything about
anything and nobody says anything about
murder in the streets I've been crying
fascism fascism how how much success how
heady was the sensation and how
intoxicated were the fascists in this
country to get to a point where they
thought they could go ahead with his
boldest stroke is killing him in the
street well obviously what makes them
think they can get away with it the
experience of getting away with it over
the years they tend to get power drunk
because they've been successful it gets
crazier and crazier they've extended
fascism without challenge for so long in
this country a generation since 1945 the
dark days this long nights started with
Roosevelt's death you can shark the
whole thing and it gets to a point where
a whole generation doesn't know any
better
Robert Kennedy talks about
massive retaliation and communism and
capitalism and vehicular capability
you're brought up on those terms man you
can't even tell when somebody is jiving
you anymore because it's 20 years of
madness as much as my Jewish friends
aren't gonna like it the German people
weren't boring crazy they were made
crazy by their government they were made
in a form which is most convenient to
that government which is fascistic which
broke the backs of the unions and you
use the anti-semitism as a dodj same
thing is happening here they're trying
to drive the American people crazy I'll
tell you something I think they're
succeeding there's great evidence in the
barbarism of day to day life and in the
lack of direction and in a degree of the
lack of mental health in this country
and I'm not suggesting going to a
psychiatrist because most of them are
sellouts too sad to say because they
know better but all they want to do is
repair you and get you back on the line
to keep punching out Mustang frames
that's the that's the trouble look what
you have here
FDR dies what was the plan to make
Germany an occupied agricultural State
what happens afterwards
Truman goes into office and he forms the
Defense Department the Marshall Plan he
aids the fascists in the hills of Greece
to stop communism he expands the CIA in
1947 he gives J Edgar Hoover a blank
check and they go ahead with an American
Activities Committee and they start the
great witch hunts and McCarthy comes on
and two bombs on the Japanese people's
civilian areas Tomic bombs and the
Korean War the bowl stroke
anti-communism we will not tolerate it
anywhere the Truman Doctrine outside the
Western Hemisphere and Russia and Korea
and China and Vietnam and Santa Domingo
you can see it step for step 22 years of
fascism so your country becomes a
colonial power now of course we're not
made for that because that's not our
tradition so that's the conflict that's
why everybody's hung up and they say
well why do the kids look so
because you're driving their body in one
direction their head is going on another
they're being pulled apart the sames
taking a young man in this country and
tying a stallion to one leg and one arm
each side and pulling in opposing
directions were not made for it we
weren't measured for an SS suit man if I
was gonna form a fascist state I would
go to the Germans they're set up for it
you know it's like Sinatra told me you
gonna buy a buy a record company don't
found one he bought one that was set up
already you have to be efficient he had
a commitment too by the way
Sinatra yeah the house I live in I don't
hear that from him anymore I don't hear
from anybody anymore where are all of
you or don't you care because I don't
know where you're gonna live you know
you can only go to make a movie in
England for three months that's almost
closed where are you gonna go you can't
hide in Switzerland you know you are an
American you're not gonna feel that good
everybody says well if you got enough
money you'll feel good anywhere it's
really not true there isn't anything
quite like America and especially if
you're an American you're really gonna
miss it I know you take it for granted
but you're gonna miss it you're gonna
miss you know the Sun coming up in the
morning you don't think so until you're
in the Holocaust and of course it's too
late but to get back to your question to
stop theorizing for a while this this
group of ixnay on Nazis who would have
brought us fascism in the name of
national security the facts on who shot
the president are in the archives
because of national security
everything is national security CIA's
national security the FBI is national
security and meanwhile you don't
recognize your own country look what we
have think of America as the body you
have and think of the pressure points in
the first aid class mark Lane is saying
to you I've got his pulse on the left
arm and he hasn't accelerated pulsing
Jim Garrison's got the right arm and he
says it Mario Savio is up there by his
right temple and he says it and Stokely
Carmichael is done by his left ankle and
he says it and Adam Powell says in his
own way
everybody tells them and Dylan tells
them and none of these guys know each
other they don't hang out together as
the saying goes they say the same thing
they have that in common
the patient has a high fever and an
accelerated pulse and I can't find
anybody who cares about this guy they
talk about heart transplants of what
happened to Mike kasparek they don't
care what happened to America that's
what it's all about you don't have to
love your parents I'm not demanding that
Miss Liberty what about it what about
the pursuit of the American dream an
awful lot of good men died so that a
good many of you can sit out there and
think about whether you want to sell out
or not I'm worried that it's too late
for you to sell in that's what really
terrifies me I don't know whether we're
over the hill or not naturally I'm gonna
get up tomorrow and go after it the same
way that bell rings you come out of your
Cornish swingin because we got to keep
trying because this is all we have but
it is evident you know nobody has to be
naive about the elements in this country
why did I invite liberals earlier the
so-called Social Democrats of my
routines when I say the far-right
because there aren't enough evil men in
this country their army
they are the generals but the privates
in their army the vast ranks of the
unwashed are the Liberals it is in other
words evil men can only do evil because
of the indifference of good men to
paraphrase a philosopher and that's what
it is the road to fascism was paved with
those liberal bricks every young man was
headed for the left was castrated by a
good liberal who wants him to fit in and
when you [ __ ] a gun and put it at the
temple of a liberal he signs the
petition on the right not on the left
there is no left in America there is no
dissension a few university professors
how many people came up to you and said
it's a terrible thing what happened to
dr. Spock they do they're just glad it
didn't happen to them right the only
reason they're talking about Vietnam is
because we're talking about Kennedy I
know where they're at they have sold us
out that's really what they've done
they've sold out a generation every time
you meet a guy for tea you have a right
to spit in his face because he's cast a
shadow over your future
I met Mort Sahl in the early 1960s for
prison and writing blank checks and not